hey there guys so this right here is one
of those moves that I always take for
granted as something that people need to
work on this is this is an extension
right and the reason that I usually take
that for granted is because it is such a
simple move it literally is just your
arm and your poi forming one continuous
line that goes around in a circle right
and it's it's one of those things like
static spend that you almost have to
wonder why there's a name for it but I
was recently reminded of why
specifically it's helpful which is that
a lot of us in the first couple years
that we're spinning we're learning
tricks like weaves and thread the
needles and crossers and things like
that and while these are all beautiful
moves they haven't unintended and
sometimes the negative side effects and
I see this popping up time and time
again with beginners which is that they
train you into a kind of bad habit that
you have to break later on and I know
this because they trained me in this
habit and I had to break this habit it
took me a couple years to get there
namely when you think of point in this
way
what's happening is that you're
minimizing the movements in your arms it
almost gets to the point where you think
so much about the movement of the poi
that your arms get folded into your body
like a birds do when they're walking
around on the ground when they're not
flying right and you're actually like
trying to minimize the presence of your
arms entirely as you do this and this
trends you to start working at moving
the poi almost completely from your hand
in your wrist now don't get me wrong
there's many many cases where you do
have to move the poi centrally from your
hand in your wrist and good plane
control really does come from there
however once you start getting into more
like immediate level tricks like say
getting into poi flowers and the like or
you know things like anti spend flowers
caps etc all of a sudden something
different happens with how you're trying
to get the poi to move
which is that the basis of movement is
no longer in getting your hand in your
wrist to move the poi but getting the
poi to be an extension of your hand and
wrist yeah which is is part of what's
interesting about the name I think when
we talk about extensions we usually
think about extending them the movement
of the poi as far as we can in all
directions when really from kind of a
biomechanical standpoint this is all
about making the movement to the poi an
extension of the movement of your hand
and arm right so any kind of movements
that you can do with your hands and arms
then the poi wind up being kind of an
exaggerated version of and just about
any kind of movement you can do where
you're taking up more room these really
beautiful flowers and hybrids and things
like that they all require you to treat
the poi as an extension of your of your
hands in your arms right so basically
this is one of those things that I
recommend you all start training
yourself out of almost as soon as you
possibly can even as your beginner when
you're doing things like a thread the
needle a lot of us learn this as say big
arm movements that we then shrink down
into smaller movements and that's fine
the smaller movements look quite
beautiful and of themselves but to not
let go that big arm place you know in
fact what I would say is a great way to
begin to train yourself out of this is
actually just to take each of the
different timing and Direction
combinations that is together same
together opposite split time opposites
and of course split time same direction
and just begin drilling those in an
extension kind of place and it's easy
enough to start off you just have your
hands do the actions that is you kind of
imagine you're holding a bowl and you
turn your hands around in a big circle
like this 44 together same time and then
you do the same thing with the poi and
what will inevitably happen the first
few times you do this is you're gonna
find something wonky happening either
the point ever quite gets across the top
like that or you'll do something like
making an extra circle because your hand
just cannot believe for the life of it
that its job is not to make the
boy keep on turning but it's not it's
now coming from your shoulder so if
you're having that problem the poise
going limp up top then what you need to
do is I guess turn it a bit faster so
that the centrifugal force from the poi
going outward is always keeping it rigid
like this if you slow it down what
happens is it goes limp over the top
right and likewise if you find yourself
doing extra circle with your hand try
relaxing it try just letting it go
slower and really really figure out how
slow you can possibly get this movement
across the top before it does start to
get limp and there you'll find that kind
of comfortable range where and you can
do those extensions right so again we
practice that in together same and we go
back to our thread the needles and do
them from a fully extended place in
together opposite then we do split time
opposites right which a lot of people
when I first show them this they want to
kind of minimize it down to this place
once again where their hands are
responsible for the movement and not
their shoulders and really truly you're
doing yourself a disservice if this is
the only way that you're practicing it
really really really reach out and try
and eat up some space with it
you know it's gonna be hard at first
especially if you're used to that my
hand and wrist are responsible for all
the poem and kind of place but it does
use so many favors to be able to get to
this place sooner and of course finally
coming at it from a place where you're
doing the crawl stroke with your poi you
know in split time same direction so
start drilling these sooner rather than
later and what you'll find is that moves
that tend to eat up more room and have
more freedom of movement to them such as
flowers or hybrids like this will come
to you much easier that you won't have
to force them in order to make them come
out in fact one of the beauties of using
poi in this way is that it actually
takes a lot less energy to spin over all
it takes a lot less concentration and
ultimately I think it looks more
beautiful in the long run so yeah that
is extensions that are nutshell if you
guys are in your first year second year
spinning POI I cannot recommend getting
into this early enough it will prepare
you for stuff there are many many years
down the road and ways that you can't
possibly imagine
so yeah thanks for watching and I will
be back with another tutorial for you
next week thanks for watching and peace